Hi, my name is Ryan Etheridge and you are listening to our podcast series focused around the gospel of Christ according to Matthew.
Today's date is Thursday, March 5th and our scripture focus is going to be centered on Matthew chapter 24 verses 1 through 14.
Now at this point in the gospel of Matthew
Jesus is coming towards the end of his working ministry, meaning that he's being a little bit more blunt and honest and straightforward with his disciples, teaching in parables still, but now
explaining the meaning behind most of his parables.
So he started to give the disciples and his audience real challenges and started to teach them just previously in chapter 22.
We read about the most important commandment.
And at this point we're also seeing the disciples, you know, get a little uneasy about what's coming down the road for them.
They're not certain, and so they're certainly having their first true test of faith here.
And so that's where we pick up with today in chapter 24, where Jesus foretells the future for what's coming down the road, both for him and the disciples, and I guess the early Christian church, if you want to think of it that way.
Now, today I do want to begin by reading our selected passage out loud in its entirety.
But as I do so, here's what I want.
I want you to hear what Christ is saying and ask yourself, how much of this has already happened or maybe happens in a natural historical cycle?
How much of this is happening in our world right now?
How many of these events can I see happening maybe in the future of my life?
Maybe I can foresee or foreshadow that
these events might come true later on in my life.
So here's Matthew 24 verses 1 through 14.
As Jesus was leaving the temple grounds, his disciples pointed out to him the various temple buildings.
But he responded, do you see all these buildings?
I tell you the truth.
They will be completely demolished.
Not one stone will be left on top of another.
Later, Jesus sat on the Mount of Olives.
His disciples came to him privately and said, tell us, when will all of this happen?
What sign will signal your return and the end of the world?
Jesus told them, don't let anyone mislead you, for many will come in my name, claiming I am the Messiah.
They will deceive many, and you will hear of wars and threats of wars, but don't panic.
Yes, these things must take place, but
The end won't follow immediately.
Nation will go to war against nation and kingdom against kingdom.
There will be famines and earthquakes in many parts of the world.
But all this is only the first of the birth pains with more to come.
Then you will be arrested, persecuted and killed.
You will be hated all over the world because you are my followers.
And many will turn away from me and betray and hate each other.
And many false prophets will appear and will deceive many people.
Sin will be rampant everywhere and the love of many will grow cold.
But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
And the good news about the kingdom will be preached throughout the whole world so that all nations will hear it.
Then the end day will come.
Now, that is a lot to take in.
I imagine that might have been one of the hardest things that Jesus told the disciples for them to process, right?
But back to my earlier questions.
And let's just go ahead and name it in the room.
There's a lot of sudden conflict, particularly in the Middle East, that has popped up just this past week or so, right?
And so when you look at this verse and you ask yourself, what's happening
today in the world around us.
It's easy to say, oh my goodness, every single one of those things is happening right now or has happened in the past.
Are we near the end times, right?
Surely we must be coming close.
I mean, just you can name it, right?
False prophets will appear and we'll deceive many people.
We've seen our fair share of those, right?
Sin will be rampant everywhere.
My goodness, right?
look at what these youth and these kids have to deal with just in the hallways at school or when they open their phone or their tablet, right?
And it's all we can do to shield them from seeing something that we don't want them to see or we know that is negative or just downright sinful.
What else?
I don't know.
Take your pick, right?
Nation will go to Oregon's nation, kingdom against kingdom.
There will be famines and earthquakes and natural disasters in many parts of the world, right?
All of these things, prosecution of Christians, right?
Martyrdom.
All of this is listed here.
So, I want you to take all that with a grain of salt now.
Stay with me, and let's find a way through this tough passage together.
The first thing that Jesus tells them in verse two,
where he tells them about, do you see all these buildings?
Not one of them will remain standing, not one stone left on top of another.
I picture the disciples walking along, maybe thinking about it to themselves quietly.
Maybe there were some who were even discussing it through whispers to each other, asking about what was the meaning about what Jesus had just said.
Did you hear what he said?
What does he mean?
The temple buildings will all be destroyed.
That doesn't sound like a good thing.
Of course, we then see in verse three, once they all get to the Mount of Olives, that they were curious, and they had been thinking about what Jesus had started to say.
So, they ask Jesus directly.
A side note here that I really think we can draw some wisdom from the disciples in this moment.
Think about how often do we maybe have a question, or a worry, or a doubt about life, faith, or spirituality, you name it.
Instead of speaking about it to others, we just let it fester in our own minds instead of being direct and just asking for help or advice or seeking the wisdom of someone else who can interpret for us better than we can.
How often do we do that?
In other words, don't let any stone go unturned.
If you have a question, ask it.
If you have a worry, then pray about it.
If you have a doubt, then talk about it.
Now, for us today,
I don't think it's necessarily useful or helpful to live a life that is in a constant state of worry or fear or concern that we are near the beginning of the end times.
Now, of course, I'm fully aware to the immense and vast access that we all have to world news and information and current events on a global scale.
if we are only living life, if we are only viewing the world through the lens in which we see the news stations feeding it to us or the media or whatever, then yes, we are probably going to be more pessimistic than optimistic in our outlook or opinion of the world and those around us.
Now, I say all this as somebody who has
Personally struggled and lived through some severe anxiety issues across different seasons of my life for different reasons.
But along with that, I've also had the opportunity to be a co-pilot alongside family members and loved ones who are living and learning through their own struggles of worry and anxiety.
There will inevitably be times in each of our lives, regardless of our age or how much life we expect to have ahead of us, where when we think about the future, when we try to consider a plan that will come for us down to the road, then we can easily spiral into a negative loop of what if scenarios, right?
And those only draw us deeper into that state of worry, concern, and anxiousness.
Of course, we know that's where the enemy would love to keep us, right?
But that's not what God calls for our life.
Maybe it's concern for our family.
Maybe it's a spouse or our children, right?
Will they make good choices for themselves and their family?
What will happen to them if I'm not around?
But like I said,
I don't think Jesus gives us and his disciples this stark message in order to have us live life in constant worry or fear or anxiety.
But instead, it's the opposite, to make sure that we are always ready, always on our guard, to make sure that we are living a life in accordance with Scripture.
that we can be boldly confident that we are His children and He has good plans, no matter what happens, right?
Plans to prosper us and not to harm us.
Plans to give us a hope and a future, right?
Jeremiah 29.11, we love that one.
As we know from other words of Christ later on in this very chapter, Christ says, no one will know the time nor the hour when these things will happen.
And then also a while back during the sermon on the mountain chapter six, when he teaches us, do not worry about tomorrow's troubles.
For tomorrow will bring its own worries.
Today's troubles are enough on their own.
And I love that verse so much.
Let me read it one more time.
Jesus says this, do not worry about tomorrow's troubles.
For tomorrow will bring its own worries.
Today's trouble are enough on its own.
Now, this doesn't mean we shouldn't plan and prepare for the future so that we can be ready when opportunities come, right?
But for me, personally, this helps squash a lot of anxiety that pops up early in the morning, right?
Or when I start to go down and think about all that I have to do this week, this month, that I want to accomplish this year, right?
This helps me slow down, and especially as a musician, if I'm trying to learn more music or memorize more pieces, right?
It's very easy for me to have a large platter of what I want to do, but to look at it all in one go is overwhelming and maybe I decide just to not practice anything new because I don't know where to start.
But this verse is a beautiful and practical or spiritual purposes, right?
Focus on today's progress.
What can you make happen today?
Where is God calling you to take that next step or to speak that next thing, right?
Or to give that forgiveness or to give that grace or extend that mercy?
Whatever it is, right?
Do not worry about tomorrow's troubles.
Focus on today.
Do the work we have for it today.
We'll get to tomorrow when tomorrow comes.
Now, as a child or youth, I don't remember when, but when I first put these two points together,
I developed this logic that worked really well for me at a young age to get myself out of one of those negative thought cycles and navigate anxiety or worry, specifically anxiety or worry about the future or the state of the world that we live in.
If no one will know the day or the hour, if that is true, like Christ said, then anytime I or someone else
thinks that the day or the hour is near, it must be false, right?
Because no one's going to know, right?
So that takes the load off.
Now, as an adult, that still holds up and works for me a little bit, but I also understand the reality that it often seems that the bad, the negative, the hurtful, harmful, and hateful all seem to get more airtime than the good, the positive, the bold, the bright, and the beautiful.
I think therein lies our mission as believers and followers of Christ.
We are to be the light in a world that often looks dark.
It sounds cliche, but it's so, so true.
We are the light.
Or at least we should be, right?
What would the world around us look like if every single Christian asked themselves before they spoke
typed, responded, or acted in some way?
Is my next step?
Are these words going to bring light into the world?
Or is it going to bring and feed into more darkness?
Now, that was just if every Christian asked that question.
What if every single human, regardless of religious affiliation, chose to live and think in this way?
That would be beautiful.
The world would be an even more beautiful place than it already is, right?
If there is darkness that we see, it is our purpose to bring light.
But we can only bring light if we ourselves are ready, if we are in line with Christ and we have the one who shines in us close and in our hearts.
I hope this podcast reading has been a blessing to you as it has been to me.
And remember, be grateful today and every day for each of us have something to be thankful for.
Thank you for listening to this podcast, focused around the book of Matthew, produced by the marvelous Kinney Stewart from the beautiful Perdido Bay Methodist Church.
We hope you have a great day.